---
title: Release Notes for v0.2.0
linktitle: Release Notes for v0.2.0
description: Release Notes for v0.2.0
draft: false
toc: true
layout: documentation-home
---
------------
Introduction
------------

The Pensando "v0.2.0" software distribution for NetApp is targeted for a FreeBSD 11.1+ based system.

This is drop targeted narrowly **only** for Integration work with NetApp Katana, 
and should **not** be considered FCS/Production ready.  
Specifically, there may be performance and stability issues wrt Sonic service chaining
in the current release.

This distribution consists of a single tarfile with the following manifest:

-------------
Documentation
-------------
The documentation directory (./PNSO/docs) contains the following:

|  Title                                                     |    Description                                                        |
|------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| NetApp_Katana_Pensando_User_Guide_version_0.2.0_FINAL.pdf  |  Product Overview, Installation, CLI Mgmt,  Product Specs, Known Bugs | 
| NAPLES_SONIC_API_User_Guide_version_0.2.0_FINAL.pdf        |  Detailed API guide for using the SONIC kernel offload driver (currently supporting compression/decompression only)  |
| SONIC_REF_GUIDE_v0.2.0.pdf                                 | doxygen generated reference guide for the SONIC offload driver        |
| Pencake_Sonic_Scalability_limits.pdf                       | Tunables and examples for the Pencake/SONIC driver                    |
| ontap_write_path_offload.txt                               | NetApp authored SONIC offload driver examples                         |
| FreeBSD_Katana_ionic_manual.pdf                            | IONIC Build and Installation Guide                                    |

New with version 0.2.0, the documentation comes included as a website for easy browsing and searching.
The only requirement is docker.
To load and run the website:

     * gzcat ./PNSO/docs/pnsodocs_docker.tar.gz | docker load
     * docker run -d -p 1313:1313 pnsodocs:latest

The website will present at [http://localhost:1313](http://localhost:1313)

------------------------------
Hardware Verification
---------------------

Verify that the Naples card has been properly installed and detected:
[ as per "Installing Naples into the Server" in the "NetApp_Katana_Pensando_User_Guide_version_0.1.0_FINAL.pdf" ]

For Data ONTAP, output from the LOADER should resemble:

```
		# show pci
                [...]
                11/0/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1000 (PCI bridge)
                12/0/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1001 (PCI bridge)
                12/1/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1001 (PCI bridge)
                12/2/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1001 (PCI bridge)
                12/3/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1001 (PCI bridge)
                13/0/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1002 (ethernet network)
                14/0/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1002 (ethernet network)
                15/0/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1004 (ethernet network)
                16/0/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1007 (class 0x12, subclass 0x00)
```

For Linux | FreeBSD, output should resemble:

		# lspci -d 1dd8:
		5e:00.0 PCI bridge: Device 1dd8:1000
		5f:00.0 PCI bridge: Device 1dd8:1001
		5f:01.0 PCI bridge: Device 1dd8:1001
		5f:02.0 PCI bridge: Device 1dd8:1001
		5f:03.0 PCI bridge: Device 1dd8:1001
		60:00.0 Ethernet controller: Device 1dd8:1002
		61:00.0 Ethernet controller: Device 1dd8:1002
		62:00.0 Ethernet controller: Device 1dd8:1004
                63:00.0 Processing accelerators: Device 1dd8:1007

If `lspci` is not found, you will need to run `pkg install pciutils`.

For FreeBSD based systems, the NAPLES card requires that PCI ARI is disabled in the running kernel.
To verify:

        # sysctl hw.pci.enable_ari
        hw.pci.enable_ari: 0

If enable_ari is not set to zero, then please run the command below and reboot:

        # Disable PCI ARI
        echo hw.pci.enable_ari="0" >> /boot/loader.conf

-----------------------------
Driver Build and Installation
-----------------------------

Building Pensando drivers assumes that :

* the kernel is compiled with both COMPAT_LINUXKPI and OFED.  
* cc/gcc/make development toolkits are installed
* The FreeBSD kernel source is installed

Source files for the Pensando drivers are tracked in GitHub 
at https://github.com/pensando/external-netapp
Please email `jainvipin@pensando.io` and/or `ng-pensando-netapp-eng@netapp.com` for repo access.

1) Navigate to the top of the drivers-freebsd source tree, which should resemble:

	root # ls
	build.sh        perftest        rdmactl.py        show_gid        sys
	contrib         perftest-freebsd.patch    run_rdma.sh        storage

If using the Dropbox bundle, `cd ./PNSO/drivers/drivers-freebsd`.
If using the `external-netapp` Github repo, `cd drivers-freebsd`

2) To build and install the `ionic` drivers:

```
   # ./build.sh
   # kldload ./sys/modules/ionic/ionic.ko
```
   To verify:
  
```  
   # kldstat
   Id Refs Address            Size     Name
    1    9 0xffffffff80200000 2130790  kernel
    2    1 0xffffffff82421000 2328     ums.ko
    3    2 0xffffffff82424000 10914    ionic.ko
```

Please note that driver loads will not persist after reboot by default.
To persist after reboots, please add `ionic_load="YES"` in /boot/loader.conf

3) Assign an IP Addr to the `ionic` management interface (`ionic2`):

```
    # ifconfig ionic2 169.254.0.2/24
```

Please note that IP Addr assignment will not persist after reboot by default

4) To build and install the sonic acceleration drivers:

```
   # cd storage
   # ./freebsd_build.sh
   # kldload ./sonic.ko
```

> NB: The current Sonic driver may take up to 45 secs to load.  
> Please do not interrupt (^C) the 'kldload' ]

  To verify:

```
  # kldstat
   # kldstat
   Id Refs Address            Size     Name
    1    9 0xffffffff80200000 2130790  kernel
    2    1 0xffffffff82421000 2328     ums.ko
    3    2 0xffffffff82424000 10914    ionic.ko
    4    1 0xffffffff82449000 2a540    sonic.ko 
```

Please note that driver loads will not persist after reboot by default.
To persiste after reboot, please add `sonic_load="YES"` in /boot/loader.conf.

Please read the NAPLES_SONIC_API_User_Guide for programming/API details.

-----------------------------
S/W and Firmware Installation
-----------------------------

1) cp ./PNSO/bin/penctl /usr/local/bin    (or desired directory in root's $PATH)

2) `penctl system firmware-install -f ./PNSO/fw/naples_fw.tar -a -i ionic2`
[ Installs latest Naples firmware and automatically tags for use at next boot.  See NetApp_Katana_User_Guide for details. 
  Verify with "penctl show firmware-version -i ionic2"  and "penctl show running-firmware -i ionic2" ]

3) Reboot the server and run `penctl show running-firmware -i ionic2`, which should be referring to the latest image

For any problems updating NAPLES f/w, please email to : `ng-pensando-netapp-eng@netapp.com`

---------------------------------
SONIC Driver v0.2.0 Release Notes
---------------------------------

The Version 0.2.0 release provides for functional completeness over the v0.1.0 release,
which only provided for "Compression/Decompression" offload.
Specifically v0.2.0 provides full support for the following:

* Encryption/Decryption offload
* Hash offload
* Checksum offload
* Asynchronous Interrupt Service Requests
* Asynchronous Poll Service Requests
* Support for PNSO_CP_DFLAG_ZERO_PAD and PNSO_CP_DFLAG_BYPASS_ONFAIL
  for Compression offload
* SONIC Driver metrics
* Chained Operations in Requests:
  + Compression + per-block Hash
  + Compression + per-block Hash + Encryption
  + Compression + per-block Checksum
  + Compression + per-block Checksum + Encryption
  + Compression + Encryption
  + Decryption + Decompression



Known Bugs and Caveats
----------------------
General Caveats:

1. Software support for Naples Status LED and Management Link LED is not available in this release.  LED on Naples will always be Orange and Management Link LEDs will always be green.  Support  will be available in future release.
2. Software support for Naples Time clock synchronization with Host is not available in this release
3. `penctl` limitations in release v0.2.0:
  + Software support for Naples Metrics via Penctl is not available in this release
  + Software support for Naples logs displayed from "penctl show logs" do not properly display in tabular or proper json format.
  + `penctl` global flags for output format specifying tabular (-t), yaml (-y) and json (-j) do not work properly.



Known Software Defects:

1. It is not recommended to unload Sonic driver or reload the host when compression, decompression tests are in progress. It may result in a host hang.
2. For compression performance tests it is recommended to use a repeat count of up to 1 million. Repeat count beyond 1 million may result in temporary drop in performance due to API error.
3. Repeated sonic driver load and unload in a loop may sometimes result in the driver load failing and hanging
4. Changing Naples from host-managed to network-managed mode is not currently supported.
5. Sonic driver may take up to 45 secs to load.  Please do not interrupt (^C) the 'kldload' 
6. Sonic driver does not support PNSO_CP_BYPASS_ON_FAIL in this release.


Known Hardware Defects:

None

----------
Contact Us
----------
For questions/issues/problems, please report to : `ng-pensando-netapp-eng@netapp.com`
       
