---
title: Release Notes for v0.3.0
linktitle: Release Notes for v0.3.0
description: Release Notes for v0.3.0
draft: false
toc: true
layout: documentation-home
---
------------
Introduction
------------

The Pensando "v0.3.0" software distribution for NetApp is targeted for a FreeBSD 11.1+ based system.

This is drop targeted narrowly **only** for Integration work with NetApp Katana, 
and should **not** be considered FCS/Production ready.  
Specifically, there may be performance and stability issues wrt Sonic service chaining
in the current release.

Please read/follow all the instructions for the v0.2.0 Release Notes.

The *v0.3.0* release includes all the features of the *v0.2.0* release plus:

* source code for the `penctl` CLI
* Linux support for the `penctl` CLI binary
* Linux support for building the `ionic` driver
* support for service-chaining in the `sonic` driver
* updated firmware for `NAPLES`
 

-------------
Documentation
-------------
The documentation directory (./PNSO/docs) contains the following:

|  Title                                                     |    Description                                                        |
|------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| NetApp_Katana_Pensando_User_Guide_version_0.2.0_FINAL.pdf  |  Product Overview, Installation, CLI Mgmt,  Product Specs, Known Bugs | 
| NAPLES_SONIC_API_User_Guide_version_0.2.0_FINAL.pdf        |  Detailed API guide for using the SONIC kernel offload driver (currently supporting compression/decompression only)  |
| SONIC_REF_GUIDE_v0.2.0.pdf                                 | doxygen generated reference guide for the SONIC offload driver        |
| Pencake_Sonic_Scalability_limits.pdf                       | Tunables and examples for the Pencake/SONIC driver                    |
| ontap_write_path_offload.txt                               | NetApp authored SONIC offload driver examples                         |
| FreeBSD_Katana_ionic_manual.pdf                            | IONIC Build and Installation Guide                                    |

New with version 0.2.0, the documentation comes included as a website for easy browsing and searching.
The only requirement is docker.
To load and run the website:

     * gzcat ./PNSO/docs/pnsodocs_docker.tar.gz | docker load
     * docker run -d -p 1313:1313 pnsodocs:latest

The website will present at [http://localhost:1313](http://localhost:1313)

------------------------------
Hardware Verification
---------------------

Verify that the Naples card has been properly installed and detected:
[ as per "Installing Naples into the Server" in the "NetApp_Katana_Pensando_User_Guide_version_0.1.0_FINAL.pdf" ]

For Data ONTAP, output from the LOADER should resemble:

```
		# show pci
                [...]
                11/0/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1000 (PCI bridge)
                12/0/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1001 (PCI bridge)
                12/1/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1001 (PCI bridge)
                12/2/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1001 (PCI bridge)
                12/3/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1001 (PCI bridge)
                13/0/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1002 (ethernet network)
                14/0/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1002 (ethernet network)
                15/0/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1004 (ethernet network)
                16/0/0: unknown vendor 0x1dd8 product 0x1007 (class 0x12, subclass 0x00)
```

For Linux | FreeBSD, output should resemble:

		# lspci -d 1dd8:
		5e:00.0 PCI bridge: Device 1dd8:1000
		5f:00.0 PCI bridge: Device 1dd8:1001
		5f:01.0 PCI bridge: Device 1dd8:1001
		5f:02.0 PCI bridge: Device 1dd8:1001
		5f:03.0 PCI bridge: Device 1dd8:1001
		60:00.0 Ethernet controller: Device 1dd8:1002
		61:00.0 Ethernet controller: Device 1dd8:1002
		62:00.0 Ethernet controller: Device 1dd8:1004
                63:00.0 Processing accelerators: Device 1dd8:1007

If `lspci` is not found, you will need to run `pkg install pciutils`.

For FreeBSD based systems, the NAPLES card requires that PCI ARI is disabled in the running kernel.
To verify:

        # sysctl hw.pci.enable_ari
        hw.pci.enable_ari: 0

If enable_ari is not set to zero, then please run the command below and reboot:

        # Disable PCI ARI
        echo hw.pci.enable_ari="0" >> /boot/loader.conf


-----------------------------
S/W and Firmware Installation
-----------------------------

1) cp ./PNSO/bin/penctl.freebsd /usr/local/bin/penctl    (or desired directory in root's $PATH)
[ Note: penctl.linux is also provided for Linux-based systems ]

To build `penctl` from source for FreeBSD:

* git clone git@github.com:/pensando/external-netapp
* cd external-netapp/penctl/src/github.com/pensando/sw/penctl
* export GOPATH=`pwd | sed -e 's^src/github.com/pensando/sw/penctl^^'`
* GOOS=freebsd go build

To verify:

```
./penctl show firmware-version -i ionic2
```


2) `penctl system firmware-install -f ./PNSO/fw/naples_fw.tar -i ionic2`
[ Installs latest Naples firmware and automatically tags for use at next boot.  See NetApp_Katana_User_Guide for details. 
  Verify with "penctl show firmware-version -i ionic2"  and "penctl show running-firmware -i ionic2" ]

3) Reboot the server and run `penctl show running-firmware -i ionic2`, which should be referring to the latest image

For any problems updating NAPLES f/w, please email to : `ng-pensando-netapp-eng@netapp.com`

-----------------------------
Driver Build and Installation
-----------------------------

Building Pensando drivers assumes that :

* the kernel is compiled with both COMPAT_LINUXKPI and OFED.  
* cc/gcc/make development toolkits are installed
* The FreeBSD kernel source is installed

Source files for the Pensando drivers are tracked in GitHub 
at https://github.com/pensando/external-netapp
Please email `jainvipin@pensando.io` and/or `ng-pensando-netapp-eng@netapp.com` for repo access.

1) Navigate to the top of the `ionic` source tree, which should resemble:

```
	root # ls
	build.sh        sys     clean.sh
```

If using the Dropbox bundle, `cd ./PNSO/drivers/drivers-freebsd`.
If using the `external-netapp` Github repo, `cd ionic`

2) To build and install the `ionic` drivers:

```
   # ./build.sh
   # kldload ./sys/modules/ionic/ionic.ko
```
   To verify:
  
```  
   # kldstat
   Id Refs Address            Size     Name
    1    9 0xffffffff80200000 2130790  kernel
    2    1 0xffffffff82421000 2328     ums.ko
    3    2 0xffffffff82424000 10914    ionic.ko
```

Please note that driver loads will not persist after reboot by default.
To persist after reboots, please add `ionic_load="YES"` in /boot/loader.conf

3) Assign an IP Addr to the `ionic` management interface (`ionic2`):

```
    # ifconfig ionic2 169.254.0.2/24
```

Please note that IP Addr assignment will not persist after reboot by default

4) To build and install the sonic acceleration drivers:

```
   # cd sonic
   # ./freebsd_build.sh
   # kldload ./sonic.ko
```

> NB: The current Sonic driver may take up to 45 secs to load.  
> Please do not interrupt (^C) the 'kldload' ]

  To verify:

```
  # kldstat
   # kldstat
   Id Refs Address            Size     Name
    1    9 0xffffffff80200000 2130790  kernel
    2    1 0xffffffff82421000 2328     ums.ko
    3    2 0xffffffff82424000 10914    ionic.ko
    4    1 0xffffffff82449000 2a540    sonic.ko 
```

Please note that driver loads will not persist after reboot by default.
To persiste after reboot, please add `sonic_load="YES"` in /boot/loader.conf.

Please read the NAPLES_SONIC_API_User_Guide for programming/API details.
---------------------------------
SONIC Driver v0.3.0 Release Notes
---------------------------------
The Version 0.3.0 release provides for functional completeness over the v0.2.0 release.
Specifically v0.3.0 provides additional support for the following:

* Asynchronous Interrupt Service Requests
* Asynchronous Poll Service Requests
* Support for PNSO_CP_DFLAG_ZERO_PAD and PNSO_CP_DFLAG_BYPASS_ONFAIL for Compression offload
* Chained Operations in Requests:
  + Compression + per block Hash
  + Checksum per block + Compression
  + Checksum full block + Compression(Bypass on fail) + Checksum per block
  + Compression(Bypass on fail) + Checksum per block 
  + Checksum per block + Encryption + Checksum per block
  + Compression + Encryption
  + Decryption + Decompression


Known Software Defects:

* Sonic driver can take up to 45 seconds to load
* Performance may drop in Compression with zeropad and chaining operations
* Do not reboot host or unload sonic driver in the middle of a sonic test - compression, hash, encryption using pencake.
* All the offloads are supported/tested within the `Sonic Limits`

Tested Limits
==========
Max Input buffer size              8K
Max batch size                     128
Max queued requests per core       128
Total number of requests           50 Million



Known Bugs and Caveats
----------------------
**Features not supported:**

1. Software support for Naples Status LED functionality is not available in this release
2. Software support for Naples Management LED functionality is not available in this release
3. Software support for RDMA and PFC functionality is not available in this release
4. software support for Fiber transceivers not available in this release and only copper transceivers supported.
5. `penctl` limitations in release v0.3.0:
  + Software support for Naples Metrics via Penctl is not available in this release
  + Software support for Naples logs displayed from "penctl show logs" do not properly display in tabular or proper json format.
  + `penctl` global flags for output format specifying tabular (-t), yaml (-y) and json (-j) do not work properly.



**Known Software Defects:**

1. Compression performance may drop with zeropad- Sonic
2. Do not reboot host or unload sonic driver in the middle of a sonic test - compression, hash, encryption using pencake.
3. Transceiver details not displayed and will show up as REMOVED


**Known Hardware Defects:**

None

----------
Contact Us
----------
For questions/issues/problems, please report to : `ng-pensando-netapp-eng@netapp.com`
       
