---
title: Release Notes for v0.5.0
linktitle: Release Notes for v0.5.0
description: Release Notes for v0.5.0
draft: false
toc: true
layout: documentation-home
---
# Introduction

The Pensando **"v0.5.0"** software distribution for Oracle is targeted for a OracleLinux based system.
This distribution consists of a single tarfile with the following manifest:

# Documentation

The documentation directory (./PNSO/docs) contains the following:

|  Title                                                   |  Description |
|----------------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| Oracle_Pensando_Guide.pdf                                | User Guide for Oracle |
| MPLS_over_UDP_Guide.pdf                                  | Configuration guide for MPLSoUDP |
| NAPLES_Performance_Oracle_Linux.pdf              | Naples performance report |


# Hardware Verification

Verify that the Naples card has been properly installed and detected:
[ as per "Installing Naples into the Server" in the "Oracle_Pensando_Guide.pdf" ]

# S/W and Firmware Installation

1. `cp ./PNSO/bin/penctl  /usr/local/bin`
<br>(or desired directory in root's $PATH)

2. `penctl system firmware-install -f ./PNSO/fw/naples_fw.tar`
<br>[ Installs latest Naples firmware and automatically tags for use at next boot.  See `Oracle_Pensando_Guide.pdf` for details.
<br>Verify with "penctl show firmware-version"  and "penctl show running-firmware" ]

3. Reboot the server and run `penctl show running-firmware`, which should be referring to the latest image


# Known Bugs and Caveats

## General Caveats

1. Software support for Naples Status LED and Management Link LED is not available in this release.  LED on Naples will always be Orange and Management Link LEDs will always be green.  Support  will be available in future release.
2. Software support for Naples Time clock synchronization with Host is not available in this release
3. `penctl` limitations in release v0.5.0:
<br>a) Software support for Naples logs displayed from `penctl show logs` do not properly display in tabular or proper json format.
4.  This release does not yet support sr-iov in SW 
5.  This release only supports one Naples per server




## Known Software Defects
* Changing MAC vlan interface's MAC address after interface creation, rx packets gets mapped to incorrect LIF queue causing performance degradation.  [Please reference Oracle MPLS over UDP Guide]
To workaround this issue mac-address should be configured while creating the macvlan interface. Changing mac address after creating the macvlan interface will cause an incorrect lif mapping which leads to a drop in performance.
* Any changes to any of the tunnel configuration parameters requires a delete and add of the tunnel interface. Currently SW does not support dynamic update of the tunnel attributes
* MAC-VLAN interface packet counter is not reliable. This issue is not related to Pensando Driver, but rather the Linux Kernel itself.
* 100G interface is configured by default with AutoNeg mode disabled. While Naples to Naples link can be up, when using Copper cable. Using Fiber cable, or connectivity to other network equipment vendor may need additional configuration on the Naples. Please seek support from Application team if you plan to connect Naples with Optic cables
* Current release only supports forwarding of MPLSoUDP packets with Ether MAC as the Overlay MAC. If we have the traffic routed in the underlay, this won’t work and that support will be made available in the next code drop
* All packets egressing over the MPLS Tunnel MAC VLAN LIFs will be encapsulated, we cannot have packets destined for substrate IPs over these LIFs. Support will be available in next code drop.


# Known Hardware Defects

None

# Contact Us
For questions/issues/problems, please report to :
<br>rami@pensando.io


